---
layout: page
title: "Headless WordPress"
order: 7
---
In WordPress context, headless means that the website visitor is served a static single-page web application (SPA) instead of traditional server-side rendered HTML generated by WordPress theme's PHP template code during each request. On a headless site WordPress works in the background and is used eg. for it's CMS features by site administrators and editors.

The static site is often built using ReactJS or some other client-side JavaScript framework tailored for building application-like web sites. The client-side JavaScript code runs WP-REST API requests to fetch the actual contents of the site dynamically.

## Headless WordPress sites are easy to make at Seravo

Seravo's environment comes with many NodeJS tools already installed, such as Gulp, Node-SASS and webpack. There is also npm available to install more libraries and tools. NodeJS at Seravo is intended to help compile and build the static site and it's assets and there is no option for a long-running NodeJS process as it is not needed in this use case.

**To make the site serve a static page instead of the default WordPress front page, simply drop a `index.html` file into the the `htdocs` directory.** Once this file is in place, access to WordPress backend at `/wp-admin/` still fully works.

## Considerations when making headless WordPress pages

Going headless might feel tempting as a technological feat for many developers, but keep in mind that the technology is still new and immature. There are still many details about how to solve navigation, indexability by search machines, SEO optimization, performance etc.

For the data access the primary and best supported option is to use the existing WP-JSON endpoints. Some also install a GraphQL plugin and use the custom endpoints it offers. If you use GraphQL, remember to use GET requests to benefit from caching, as POST requests are never cached.

## Performance considerations

One advantage with headless sites is the ability to make them offline compatible and in some cases load very fast.

Please note that at Seravo, all sites plans include server level HTTP caching and thus, if not planned carefully, a headless implementation may fall behind in performance and speed compared to traditional WordPress sites where the PHP generated HTML output with embedded contents is cached at the server level and delivered at the same speed as a headless site template that still lacks the contents.
