---
layout: page
title: "List of commands"
category: get-started
date: 2015-10-13 14:25:15
order: 5
published: true
summary: "WP-palvelu contains bunchful of additional commands for helping the developer with basic tasks"
---

Vagrant box contains plenty of helpers for developing your site and migrating data to/from production.

Production contains most of these and also command for purging cache.

## List of commands

### Developer helpers
#### wp-list-env
```$ wp-list-env ``` - Prints list of defined ENVs. Vagrant & Production contain unix ENVs which define ports and credentials for WordPress. With this command you can debug things.

#### wp-purge-cache
```$ wp-purge-cache ``` - Removes everything for nginx proxy server cache. This is called stale-cache in WP-palvelu.

#### wp-restart-nginx
```$ wp-restart-nginx``` - Restarts the web server and uses new configuration of ```/data/wordpress/nginx/*.conf```

#### wp-test
`$ wp-test` - Runs [Rspec tests]({% post_url 2015-10-11-integration-tests %}) from ```/data/wordpress/tests/rspec/*.rb```


### Vagrant commands
> **Note:** These are only available inside of Vagrant box.

#### wp-ssh-production
```$ wp-ssh-production``` - If your config.yml is setupped with production details you can ssh into your production instance.

#### wp-pull-production-db
`$ wp-pull-production-db` - Copies production database into this vagrant box and replaces siteurls.

#### wp-push-production-db
<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-danger">
  <strong>Warning</strong>: This will replace the production database. Be careful with this. 
</div>

`$ wp-push-production-db` - Copies your development database into production and replaces siteurls.


### Vagrant internal commands (good to know, but developers won't need to use these.)

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-info">
  <strong>Note</strong>: These commands are used in <code>vagrantfile</code> by default.
</div>

#### wp-vagrant-activation
```$ wp-vagrant-activation ``` - Restarts nginx and avahi-daemon, generates domains in /etc/hosts and production details to .ssh/config

#### wp-vagrant-dump-db
```$ wp-vagrant-dump-db ``` - This is run everytime you `halt` or `destroy` the vagrant box. So that you have dump file next time.

#### wp-vagrant-import-db
```$ wp-vagrant-import-db ``` - This is run everytime you `up` the vagrant box.

It tries to import the dump file generated by ```$ wp-vagrant-dump-db``` so you can continue your work where you left it.